scenes of Serenity after the chaos of
conflict people arriving from Israel at
this shelter on the banks of hungary's
Lake Balaton say it's a
godsend it's it's a miracle inside
sounds of Jewish prayer fill an
improvised
synagogue children sing songs in
Hebrew and kitchen staff cook kosher
food for 200 residents many of them are
mothers who fled to Hungary after the
Hamas attacks it's was was very afraid
for my children to hear the booms and it
was crazy I live next to the Lebanon
border they were afraid that what Hamas
did they're going to do to us so we were
evacuated she decided to come here to
Hungary which has one of the largest
Jewish populations in Central and
Eastern Europe locals transformed this
once abandoned Resort into a refugee
center after Russia's War Began last
year for some of the new residents
seeking Refuge is nothing new mendal
moskovitz escaped eastern Ukraine with
his family last year and found a new
home in southern Israel only to find
himself faced with war on his doorstep
once again last month a feeling all too
familiar throughout history uh Jews have
been uh evacuated Jews have been uh
expelled from their home countries many
many many times over and
unfortunately uh there's a famous saying
that history repeats itself we would
love to believe that the world is a
better place uh than it used to be but
unfortunately we do see we are seeing a
big rise in anti-Semitism right now all
over the world authorities offer the
site to the associations of Hungarian
and Ukrainian Jewish communities rent
free and it's closely guarded but
hungary's anti-migrant rhetoric hasn't
changed people here already had the
right to travel to the country as
Ukrainian or Israeli Nationals the right
Towing government in Budapest has faced
accus accusations of fueling divisions
and dealing in anti-semitic tropes in
the past but it insists it has a zero
tolerance policy on anti-Semitism in
early October prime minister Victor
Orban banned all protests in solidarity
with Palestinians branding them as Pro
Terror that's something Rabbi schlomo
koves believes helps create a sense of
safety yes I think demonstrations of
such sort should be banned Hungary has
um in its Society some level of
anti-Semitic attitud udes just like uh
other unfortunately just like most
Societies in the world but there's
almost no physical uh attacks on Jewish
institutions uh or or or no physical
atrocities but while some feel secure
others feel silenced this small memorial
outside the Palestinian mission is the
only place Gaza born accountant Ramadan
meari can come to voice his grief and
anger it's really sad that you you can't
speak on what is is in your heart or
express your emotions after the tragedic
events that we have in the last few days
for Ramadan the tragedy is personal at
his apartment he shows us photos of
loved ones lost after his family home
was hit amid Israel's massive
bombardment of Gaza I lost my father my
mother and my sister my grandpa how many
people in total did you lose 2 from my
first
degree uh
family ah yeah it's really sad
to to see the pictures and to know that
you were not going to see them in
reality
more with the humanitarian catastrophe
in Gaza growing more dire daily Ramadan
has reconciled himself to just one hope
just to continue the life with the
remaining of what I have not to lose not
to have bigger
loss back at Lake Balaton residents turn
to Faith when Division and suffering
make it hard to see any way ahead we
hope and pray every day that this war
will end uh people don't want this war
and people want to live in peace have
families have friends at the lakeside
the fog of War feels A Million Miles
Away with their future uncertain Mel
knows his family is lucky to have found
Refuge here for now because for so many
more safety is still Out Of Reach
at